2.4.1 Release blogpost (#344)
mixxxdj/website: content/news/XXXX-XX-XX-mixxx-2-4-1-released.md

title: Mixxx 2.4.1 released
authors: Evelynne Veys
tags: 2.4, 2.4.1, release announcement
comments: yes
status: draft

####Dear Mixxx-ers,

The Mixxx-developingteam started the year with good intentions and therefore imposed itself some deadlines. That is why only two months after version 2.4, 
the next release: version 2.4.1 can be offered. In between versions with new features this version delivers some solutions for minor bugs and problems that 

> came with 2.4.

Reviewer: for markdown reviews, we prefer to have one sentence per line, because that makes it easier to review.  Can you reformat this to put each sentence on its own line, with no word wrapping?

Author: > for markdown reviews, we prefer to have one sentence per line, because that makes it easier to review. Can you reformat this to put each sentence on its own line, with no word wrapping?

done

> The Mixxx-developingteam started the year with good intentions and therefore imposed itself some deadlines. That is why only two months after version 2.4, 
> the next release: version 2.4.1 can be offered. In between versions with new features this version delivers some solutions for minor bugs and problems that 
> came with 2.4.

Reviewer: Here is how I would tweak the first paragraph

```suggestion
The Mixxx developers started the year with good intentions and therefore imposed some deadlines on themselves.
That is why only two months after version 2.4, version 2.4.1 has been released.
This version delivers solutions for minor bugs and issues that came with 2.4.
```

Author: > Here is how I would tweak the first paragraph

done

  [#12976](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12976)
  [#12975](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/12975)
* Tagfetcher: Cache fetched covers
  [#12301](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12301)
  [#11084](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/11084)
* Tagfetcher: Cache fetched covers
  [#12301](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12301)
  [#11084](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/11084)
* Avoid beats iterator being one off and DEBUG_ASSERT in Beats::iteratorFrom
  [#13150](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13150)
  [#13149](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/13149)
* Show hint if resource path in CMakeCache.txt does not exist
  [#12929](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12929)
* Always calculate the auto value for colorful console output.
  [#13153](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13153)
* Fix FLAC recording on macOS and Windows
  [#10880](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/10880)
  [#13154](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13154)

####What happened?
I would like to share some memorable moments I could follow in the [Zulip](https://mixxx.zulipchat.com/login/)-chat that are significant for the atmosphere and

> motivation of the Mixxx-team:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I would like to share some memorable moments from the [Zulip](https://mixxx.zulipchat.com/login/)-chat that are significant for the atmosphere and motivation of the Mixxx team:
```

Author: done

#####Not giving up...
Ten days ago a Mixxx-er posted a problem that he struggled with for over a year.
He was unable to make a MIDI-connection between his Pioneer DJM-750MK2 Mixer with Mixxx and then activate the DVS (Digital Vinyl System) to work with Mixxx's Vinyl Control.
A Mixxx-developer took the challenge and during 2 weeks you could see the messages flying over: log-files, screenshots, debugging-info, tooltests, capturing communication, a new pull request...
I think I've seen over 100 messages.
Trying things, fail, one step forward, two steps back ...
After two weeks the Mixxx-developer managed to get it fixed.

> All on distance, not having the hardware available, putting a lot of time in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All from a distance, not having the hardware available, putting a lot of time in it.
```

Author: done

It was fantastic to be a witness of this magic.

> ######Shout out to N/S!

Reviewer: who is N/S?  Is that @Swiftb0y ? Let's link to the PR that fixed the issue or his github account (with permission)

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the shoutout. Feel free to link my author page https://mixxx.org/news/author/nikolaus-einhauser/

Regardless, I'm a little skeptical of this segment because this is teasing things that are nowhere near finished right now. It's not even included in mixxx (main branch) and only tested for the 750MK2.

Author: you're welcome,
It's about the motivation. The atmosphere, what you did to help Phr3d13.
What I've seen was .... as I described.
You should  be more proud, all of you. 
This is not just something that can be taken for granted.

Reviewer 2: Thank you, really. I appreciate your enthusiasm, but I would personally prefer to not post about this too publicly until its actually ready. Otherwise it'll only result in pressure on me.

Author: I regret but I understand, I don't want you to feel unconfortable about it.
A last try: not even when I write about 'a piece of hardware" and  without your name under it so it becomes quiet anonymous for 99,9% of the readers?

Reviewer 2: sure. I still personally don't think its very relevant for most readers, but you're the author so I'll let you decide.

#####Wow!

> About three weeks ago a Mixxx-developer proposed a new feature: showing the remaining beats till the next cue point in the waveform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
About three weeks ago a Mixxx developer proposed a new feature: showing the remaining beats till the next cue point in the waveform.
```

Author: done

> After some writing, testing, rewriting ... he created a feature I couldn't miss anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After some writing, testing, rewriting ... he created a feature I couldn't do without anymore.
```

Author: done

> If you make a hotcue at eg. a climax or a loop or an intro start in a song you can see the remaining time (or # beats) until this point in the waveform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you make a hotcue at eg. a climax, or a loop, or an intro start in a song, you can see the remaining time (or number beats) until this point in the waveform.
```

Author: done

> Once a DJ has used this feature, she/he/they can't without it.

Reviewer: Usually, singular "they" is sufficient for anyone's choice of gender identity, but if you'd prefer to keep this the same that's ok too.

```suggestion
Once a DJ has used this feature they can't live without it.
```

> This feature will be available in the 2.5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature will be available in the next stable version 2.5.
```

Author: done

> ######Shout out to m!

Reviewer: again, I think we should name/link the person to give them more recognition

Author: done

> ####What's going on in the Mixxx-team?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
####What's going on in the Mixxx team?
```

Author: done

> * At the moment some people are trying to get Mixxx ready for stem-files, stem-files are a new multi-channel format of audio files with which DJ's can 'remix' the song on-the-fly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At the moment some people are trying to get Mixxx ready for stem files. Stems are a new multi-channel format of audio files with which DJ's can 'remix' the song on-the-fly.
```

Author: done

* A lot of people are improving controller-mappings to support more hardware with more features.

> * Research is ongoing to make Mixxx able to share it's database over lan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Research is ongoing to make Mixxx able to share its database over a network.
```

Author: done

Author: done

> * There's someone very keen on giving Mixxx the ability for Spatial Audio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* One developer is very keen on giving Mixxx the ability to support Spatial Audio.
```

* Translators are very busy adapting the manual and interface.

> * Developers continue improving features, correcting minor bugs, adapting code to support more machines and operating systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Developers continue improving features, correcting minor bugs, and adapting code to support more machines and operating systems.
```

Author: done

> * On daily basis Mixxx-ers are given adequate support for small or big problems. Every question is taken serious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On daily basis Mixxx-ers are given adequate support for small or big problems. Every question is taken seriously.
```

Author: done

> No cure for the spreading Mixxx-virus, you 're all invited to [join the Mixxx-team](https://mixxx.org/get-involved/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no cure for the spreading Mixxx virus, everyone is invited to [join the Mixxx-team](https://mixxx.org/get-involved/).
```

Author: done

####Appeal
I want to take the opportunity to make an appeal to all Mixxx-ers:

> As we try to explain the Mixxx-features in an optimal way and try to give the best possible support to every user, not everyone understands the English language as well as others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we try to explain Mixxx's features in an optimal way and try to give the best possible support to every user, not everyone understands the English language as well as others.
```

Author: done

Especially when the language contains technical terms it can get confusing for not native speakers.
If you understand the English manual well and you notice missing translations in your own language, please take the time to translate a/some part(s).
It needs a little effort in the beginning, but you can make a huge difference for other users.

> We do are available to get you started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are available to get you started.
```

Author: done

title: Mixxx 2.4.1 released
authors: Evelynne Veys
tags: 2.4, 2.4.1, release announcement
comments: yes
status: draft

Dear Mixxx-ers,

The Mixxx-developingteam started the year with good intentions and therefore imposed itself some deadlines. That is why only two months after version 2.4, 

the next release: version 2.4.1 can be offered. This isn't just a service release fixing some minor bugs and problems, version 2.4.1 contains some nice

> features. Hiding them longer for you could possibly been seen as a crime.

Reviewer 3: There are no new features in 2.4.1. What are you referring to?

Author: The long press sliding change of the sync knob, addings to controller mappings,
controllermapping updates..
You should be more proud of yourself/yourselves, it 's not just solving minor bugs.

Reviewer 3: If you consider this a new feature, okay, in my eyes it's a (very nice!) UX/accessibility fix.

'Features' refers to new components / functionality in the core app which require testing (beta period) and are therefore only added in major releases.

Author: you could see 95% of Mixxx as a kind of fix, but for me those are all features.

Reviewer 3: I disagree, the 'feature' defintion I posted is pretty clear IMHO.
I simply find it misleading to announce new features for a bugfix release.

Please try to reword that paragraph.

Author: What did you write to me about what I should do when you 'disagree' ? :-)
Let me think

Reviewer 4: For me it is just the other way around a missing feature is a bug. A feature is clearly  somemething that may remove or alter a user workflow. So you see, we need a definition for the gray area.

Fortumtly we have one: A point release is a bugfix release and 2.5.0 will be a feature release. 

I must admit that I have merged some PRs that we may consider as features. Because they where of a low risk and limited scope I have just merged them.

Conclusion: I agree with @ronso0 that we must not advertise this as a feature release to not scare away users because of regression assumptions for features.

On the other hand we can be proud and enthusiastic about this release. Let me have a look if I find a wording that covers that.

Author: I already changed it

* Research is ongoing to make Mixxx able to share it's database over lan.
* There's someone very keen on giving Mixxx the ability for Spatial Audio.
* Translators are very busy adapting the manual and interface.
* Developers continue improving features, correcting minor bugs, adapting code to support more machines and operating systems.
* On daily basis Mixxx-ers are given adequate support for small or big problems. Every question is taken serious.

No cure for the spreading Mixxx-virus, you 're all invited to join the Mixxx-team. 

I want to take the opportunity to make an appeal to all Mixxx-ers:

As we try to explain the Mixxx-features in an optimal way and try to give the best possible support to every user, not everyone understands the English 

language as well as others. Especially when the language contains technical terms it can get confusing for not native speakers.

If you understand the English manual well and you notice missing translations in your own language, please take the time to translate a/some part(s).

It needs a little effort in the beginning, but you can make a huge difference for other users.

> We do are available to get you started.

Reviewer 3: Every blank line creates a new paragraph which is not helpful here. It's about the same topic: call for help with translations.

Btw the intro is here https://mixxx.org/get-involved/#djs (the anchor should actually be #translators, fixed by #345)

 
You can download the new release from the [Download](https://mixxx.org/download/) page. 

> The test release with new features will be available soon.
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
What test release?
The release binaries will be made available _before_ this post is published.

In case you're  referring to 2.5-beta, that will get a separate post.

  [#13153](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13153)
* Fix FLAC recording on macOS and Windows
  [#10880](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/10880)
  [#13154](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13154)

####What happened?
I would like to share some memorable moments from the [Zulip](https://mixxx.zulipchat.com/login/)-chat that are significant for the atmosphere and motivation of the Mixxx team:

#####Not giving up...
Ten days ago a Mixxx-er posted a problem that he struggled with for over a year.
He was unable to make a MIDI-connection between his Pioneer DJM-750MK2 Mixer with Mixxx and then activate the DVS (Digital Vinyl System) to work with Mixxx's Vinyl Control.
A Mixxx developer took the challenge and during 2 weeks you could see the messages flying over: log-files, screenshots, debugging-info, tooltests, capturing communication, a new pull request...
I think I've seen over 100 messages.
Trying things, fail, one step forward, two steps back ...
After two weeks the Mixxx developer managed to get it fixed.
All from a distance, not having the hardware available, putting a lot of time in it.
It was fantastic to be a witness of this magic.

> ######Shout out to [Niko/Swiftb0y](https://mixxx.org/news/author/nikolaus-einhauser/)!

Reviewer: @Swiftb0y did you want us to remove this specific shoutout?

Reviewer 2: no its fine. leave it. Only thing I'd change is to just make it bold or italic instead of abusing headings for emphasis.

Reviewer: agree, @Eve00000 can you change this to italics?

Author: it 's already in italic

  [#12301](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12301)
  [#11084](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/11084)
* Avoid beats iterator being one off and DEBUG_ASSERT in Beats::iteratorFrom
  [#13150](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13150)
  [#13149](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/13149)
* Show hint if resource path in CMakeCache.txt does not exist
  [#12929](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12929)
* Always calculate the auto value for colorful console output.
  [#13153](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13153)
* Fix FLAC recording on macOS and Windows
  [#10880](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues/10880)
  [#13154](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13154)

####What happened?
I would like to share some memorable moments from the [Zulip](https://mixxx.zulipchat.com/login/)-chat that are significant for the atmosphere and motivation of the Mixxx team:

#####Not giving up...
Ten days ago a Mixxx-er posted a problem that he struggled with for over a year.
He was unable to make a MIDI-connection between his Pioneer DJM-750MK2 Mixer with Mixxx and then activate the DVS (Digital Vinyl System) to work with Mixxx's Vinyl Control.

> A Mixxx-developer took the challenge and during 2 weeks you could see the messages flying over: log-files, screenshots, debugging-info, tooltests, capturing communication, a new pull request...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Mixxx developer took the challenge and during 2 weeks you could see the messages flying over: log-files, screenshots, debugging-info, tooltests, capturing communication, a new pull request...
```

Author: done

If you make a hotcue at eg. a climax, or a loop, or an intro start in a song, you can see the remaining time (or number beats) until this point in the waveform.
Once a DJ has used this feature, they can't live without it.
This feature will be available in the next stable version 2.5
######Shout out to [m0dB](https://github.com/m0dB)!

####What's going on in the Mixxx team?
* At the moment some people are trying to get Mixxx ready for stems. Stems are a new multi-channel format of audio files with which DJ's can 'remix' the song on-the-fly.
* A lot of people are improving controller-mappings to support more hardware with more features.
* Research is ongoing to make Mixxx able to share its database over a network.
* There's someone very keen on giving Mixxx the ability to support Spatial Audio.
* Translators are very busy adapting the manual and interface.
* Developers continue improving features, correcting minor bugs, and adapting code to support more machines and operating systems.
* On daily basis Mixxx-ers are given adequate support for small or big problems. Every question is taken seriously.

> There is no cure for the spreading Mixxx-virus, everyone is invited to [join the Mixxx-team](https://mixxx.org/get-involved/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no cure for the spreading Mixxx-virus, everyone is invited to [join the Mixxx team](https://mixxx.org/get-involved/).
```

Author: done

####Appeal
I want to take the opportunity to make an appeal to all Mixxx-ers:
As we try to explain Mixxx's features in an optimal way and try to give the best possible support to every user, not everyone understands the English language as well as others.
Especially when the language contains technical terms it can get confusing for not native speakers.
If you understand the English manual well and you notice missing translations in your own language, please take the time to translate a/some part(s).
It needs a little effort in the beginning, but you can make a huge difference for other users.
We are available to get you started.
[Translators Wanted](https://mixxx.org/get-involved/#translators)

> ---- Owen, this is the paragraph you asked, you can edit this ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

> ####Who's writing this?  
> Music was my first love and it will be my last.
> I like music, from Aaliyah to ZZ Top, from A Capella and Classical Aria's to Zouk, as long as it has a soul.
> Since I was very young I discovered the power of music, it can strengthen or change emotions.
> Music can make people happy or smile, even when they're sad.
> Music can be in the back- or foreground but I can't imagine a life without it.
> Since I was very young I liked to discover all kinds of music and share my discoveries with friends.
> When I was thirteen (in the 80's) I started making my own radioshow for myself, playing discs I found in my fathers (huge) collection.
> A family party started my DJ-career, I felt the joy of sharing music, making people happy with it, make them want to dance.
> Through the years I passed by a lot of venues, first in my hometown, later throughout the country and even abroad.
> In the late 80's I started using my computer in my DJ-ing, to get samples, own remixes or recordings I made from hard to get records.
> 
> In the late 90's I got involved with BPM Studio, a superb but dated program. Dated because it was only compatible with MP3 and WAV.
> Soundquality was and is very important for me, the term audiophile describes me very well, so I don't want to make a compromise in the audioquality.
> Believe me, in the 90's, early 00's harddrivespace wasn't that obvious and WAV-files took a lot of space.
> 
> I always observed what was going on in the DJ-world, I saw programs come and go. 
> Pioneer Recorbox, serato didn't suit me, so I continued using BPM Studio (yes it is still working) and Traktor side by side. 
> Both of them with a 19inch controller (BPM Studio Controller and Denon HC4500).
> BPM development stopped about ten years ago and Traktor worked fine for me until a couple of years ago. 
> All of a sudden they had to produce a lot of updates and had a lot of bugs, high CPU use, problems with high quality files, crashes…
> I could no longer trust and rely on Traktor for live gigs and I rediscovered Mixxx, with the versions 2.3.5/6 a big step was made.
> 
> I downloaded the new version and gave it a try once in a while. I found a controller-mapping file (+10 years old) for my denon HC4500 that worked fine,
> (meanwhile I finetuned it with 4decks-support). And started a big test.
> My first test: Auto-DJ (autopilot in traktor)
> The software must be able to play music for days without an error = test of hardware and software.
> Traktor crashes time after time. Library = same song copied 100 times in wav, flac, m4a, mp3 traktor fails after 10minutes to 10hours. 
> Fail = just quit.
> The Traktor files became bigger and bigger… Gigabytes of stripes, xml ……
> 
> Mixxx passed the test gloriously.
> On the same hardware I tested Mixxx 2.3.5 and the auto-dj was playing for over 10 days continuously without a problem.
> (HP Elitebok i7, 16Gb Ram, Win 10, ESI Gigaport on 96Khz).
> So started playing around with Mixxx, I started importing my live-library, playlists, crates and history, found some minor bugs which I discussed on the forum and in bugreport.
> 
> I got more and more interested.
> I found some translation problems so I offered to make the Dutch translate of the Mixxx-application.
> Meanwhile I started diving and swimming in the code to tweak some minor things, like exporting statusfiles, nowplaying, writing a new cpontroller-mappingsfile.
> To give something back to the Mixxx-community I answered questions about little problems in the forum, I translated the manual and I offered to write this announcement that became a sort of testimony.
> 
> And that all in about 12 weeks?

Reviewer: I am shortening this but please do restore anything you really wanted to say :).  I am removing the negative things about other products, I don't want to put that in our official publications.

I am not sure what the 12 weeks part refers to?  It's not clear if it's when you got mixxx 2.3.5 or some other event.

```suggestion
####Who's writing this?  
Music was my first love and it will be my last.
I like music from Aaliyah to ZZ Top, from A Capella and Classical Aria's to Zouk, as long as it has a soul.
When I was thirteen (in the 80's) I started making my own radio show for myself, playing discs I found in my father's (huge) collection.
A family party started my DJ-career. I felt the joy of sharing music, making people happy with it, make them want to dance.

In the late 90's I got involved with BPM Studio, a superb but dated program.
Sound quality was and is very important for me, the term audiophile describes me very well, so I don't want to make a compromise in the audio quality.
Believe me, in the 90's, early 00's hard drive space wasn't that abundant and WAV-files took a lot of space.

BPM development stopped about ten years ago and Traktor worked fine for me until a couple of years ago. 
I could no longer trust and rely on Traktor for live gigs and I rediscovered Mixxx, with the versions 2.3.5/6 a big step was made.

I found a controller-mapping file (+10 years old) for my denon HC4500 that worked fine.
My first test: Auto-DJ (autopilot in traktor)
The software must be able to play music for days without an error = test of hardware and software.
Mixxx passed the test gloriously.
I tested Mixxx 2.3.5 and the auto-dj was playing for over 10 days continuously without a problem.
So started playing around with Mixxx, I started importing my live-library, playlists, crates and history, found some minor bugs which I discussed on the forum and in bug reports.

I got more and more interested.
I found some translation problems so I offered to make the Dutch translation of the Mixxx application.
Meanwhile I started diving and swimming in the code to tweak some minor things, like exporting statusfiles, now-playing, writing a new controller mapping file.
To give something back to the Mixxx-community I answered questions about little problems in the forum, I translated the manual and I offered to write this announcement that became a sort of testimony.

And that all in about 12 weeks?
```

Author: done
I changed the 12 weeks phrase:
And that all in about 12 weeks since I the Auto DJ test.

title: Mixxx 2.4.1 released
authors: Evelynne Veys
tags: 2.4, 2.4.1, release announcement
comments: yes
status: draft

#### Dear Mixxx-ers

The Mixxx developers started the year with good intentions and therefore imposed some deadlines on themselves.

> That is why only two months after version 2.4, version 2.4.1 has been released.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That is why only three months after version 2.4, version 2.4.1 has been released.
```
